---
layout: post
title: 00-13-56-reddit
date: 2016-07-05 00:13:56
permalink: https://reddit.com/r/jazzguitar/comments/4rad0u/practicing_donna_lee_looking_for_feedback/d4zpemw/
---

###### 2016-07-05 00:13:56 [https://reddit.com/r/jazzguitar/comments/4rad0u/practicing_donna_lee_looking_for_feedback/d4zpemw/]
You sound like you're just running scales a lot of the time.

I'm going to suggest a complete change in approach that I think might help get you where you want to go quicker.

Instead of thinking "Chord -> Scale", think "Chord -> Arpeggio".

There are lots of different scales and modes you could play over an F7 that would sound fine and good. Super locrian, mixolydian, bebop dominant, whatever.. Different scales will sound better or worse in different situations.

But the F7 arpeggio will ALWAYS sound good over an F7 chord.

Use that to your advantage.

If you can make a decent solo using ONLY arpeggios, then in between the arpeggios you can basically just do whatever you want, whatever you hear in your head, and if it ever gets mucked up you just land right back in those arpeggios.

Suddenly everything is more free, more forgiving. Jazz improvisation is very free and forgiving.

I think a lot of guys, especially swing guys, couldn't tell you exactly what scale they're playing, even if it is a scale. They're not thinking "F super locrian", they just see the chord tones, and have different ways of connecting them up. 

They're playing scales but not thinking in scales.

Melody follows chord tones, everything else is just decoration...

Learn the arpeggios, not the scales. Improvise with arpeggios, not scales.

But then the trick is this - just running up and down arpeggios sounds waaaaay more boring than just running up and down scales.

So how do you make just arpeggios sound interesting?

That's the trick. I can't tell you how, but I can tell you this - play around until you can do that and I promise it will be more immediately rewarding than trying to learn the thousands of possible scale combinations that go over which set of chord in which context.
