---
layout: post
title: 08-03-23-reddit
date: 2019-05-30 08:03:23
permalink: https://reddit.com/r/Songwriters/comments/bugkhu/deleted_by_user/ephcfmu/
---

###### 2019-05-30 08:03:23 [https://reddit.com/r/Songwriters/comments/bugkhu/deleted_by_user/ephcfmu/]
ohhh man.. I think lyrics might be the hardest thing to take criticism on. I get what you're saying 100%, but also everything you're saying was mostly an intentional choice for this song. I do personally get into abstract lyrics sometimes, as long as they are evocative of a feeling (not even necessarily of imagery), and the making the lyrics less clear was what it felt like the song called for here. there's still a story going on in the background, my hope was just that you could feel what it is without being told directly.

that all having been said - I do agree that songs with more direct lyrics have a deeper impact on me, and I have written things like that. maybe I'll try to post something more like that and see what you think. it's just that sometimes I also like to make things that are "just pretty" if you know what I mean. and to me sometimes that means writing lyrics that intentionally don't draw attention to themselves. that kind of sit in the background and let you just hear them more as sounds, and come up with your own story. and that can be done better or worse for sure - some vagueness just ends up being nonsense, but some vagueness (a lot of modern Radiohead for example) is still very evocative in a vague way.

I feel sort of stuck with this song because, while it might be possible to write a whole different set of lyrics that convey more, I can't imagine re-writing it from scratch now. not even just for the work, but because these lyrics are what I hear now with the song, and maybe having heard them so many times they feel "right" now. I guess that is the curse of making music for yourself but trying to share with others - I have something here that is meaningful to me, but you're saying it's not meaningful to you...

I guess ultimately I can take your feedback as a reminder that more lyrically rich songs are very important to me too (sometimes more important that the vague ones), and as I continue to write more songs I can focus on telling a clearer story from the outset if that's what I want. And I will try to remember that - I want to be able to write lyrics that make you want to take another listen, even if not with every single song.

Thank you for listening, and thank you for your feedback - it is very appreciated, and acknowledged. I'd love to hear some of your music some time too.
