---
title: "books > Mayo Clinic Guide to a Healthy Pregnancy: 2nd Edition: Fully Revised and Updated (Myra J. Wick)"
description: ""
pubDate: 2021-09-24
quoteAuthor: "Myra J. Wick"
tags: []
---

> How to ease the queasiness To help relieve morning sickness: Choose foods carefully. Opt for foods that are bland or dry, easy to digest, and lower in fat. Some research suggests that protein-based foods may relieve nausea better than foods rich in carbohydrates. Salty snacks are sometimes helpful, as are foods that contain ginger — such as ginger lollipops. Avoid greasy, spicy and fatty foods. Snack often. Before getting out of bed in the morning, eat a few soda crackers or a piece of dry toast. Nibble throughout the day, rather than eating three larger meals. An empty stomach may aggravate nausea. Drink plenty of fluids. Sip water or ginger ale. It may also help to suck on hard candy, ice chips or ice pops. Pay attention to triggers. Avoid foods or smells that seem to make your nausea worse. Keep rooms well-ventilated and free of cooking odors, which can aggravate nausea. Get plenty of fresh air. Weather permitting, open the windows in your home or workplace. Take a daily walk outdoors. Take care with prenatal vitamins. If you feel queasy after taking prenatal vitamins, take the vitamins at night or with a snack. It may also help to chew gum or suck on hard candy after taking your prenatal vitamin. If these steps don’t help, ask your care provider if it might be possible to switch to a type of prenatal vitamin that doesn’t contain iron. Experiment with acupressure and acupuncture. Although they haven’t been proved to be effective, some women find these therapies to be helpful in relieving morning sickness. Acupressure involves stimulating certain points on the body with pressure. Acupressure wristbands, available in pharmacies without a prescription, are designed to stimulate a certain point on the wrist. This action is thought to reduce nausea. Acupuncture involves inserting hair-thin needles into your skin. Some women find it helpful, but it requires an appointment with a licensed acupuncturist.