---
title: "social/facebook"
description: ""
pubDate: 2019-07-22 19:03:42
sourceUrl: "https://www.facebook.com/10111169199177213/posts/10107104307727263"
socialPlatform: "Facebook"
tags: []
---

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z4yTofKN7S8

Throwback to about two years ago, this is the first time I recorded myself singing and didn't completely hate my voice. Not that it was *good* by any means (I listen now and still cringe at parts), but at least I could listen to it without feeling like I should stop forever.

Singing is hard for me because more than any other instrument, it just IS you. When someone doesn't like your voice it feels like they don't like your face, or your personality. It's so vulnerable, and so inherently a part of you.

Now I often wonder...

How much of getting better at singing is really technique, and how much is just stopping giving a f*** about haters?

Which is really more important... "breath support"? Or support from friends?

Yeah, some people don't have as nice of a face as others, or as winning of a personality. But what a horrible thing to do to make someone ashamed of their face, or discourage someone who's trying to work on improving their personality (or their voice), regardless of whatever personal standards you have for what's "good enough".

I feel lucky that awesome people I care about have been supportive of me recently (and always), but I remember a time when I sang loud and free just because it was fun, and because no one had taught me yet to judge myself.

I'm probably just a sensitive snowflake, but the first time someone genuinely laughed at my singing (at, not with) I think it set me back to grade-school in terms of self-confidence. I'm lucky that I didn't stop completely, I just stopped doing it in front of people.

I'm not trying to be a professional singer. I'm just trying to reclaim the right - the right of every human being as far as I'm concerned - to sing if I want to sing, without shame. You'd think that wouldn't be so damn hard.
