---
title: "social/reddit"
description: ""
pubDate: 2019-05-29 13:33:26
sourceUrl: "https://reddit.com/r/Songwriters/comments/bugkhu/deleted_by_user/epctx29/"
socialPlatform: "Reddit"
tags: []
---

oh man, thank you so much - this is so much more depth than I expected from any feedback, and I hear you loud and clear.

all I've been playing is jazz for a while now, my head is way in the music theory clouds, and I think as I write this kind of stuff I'm making an effort to keep it simple, but it sounds like maybe I went too far in that direction..

I think I also might be imagining too much of what other instruments or players might add, I'm used to writing a melody and chords, and then arrangement is something that happens when you get a band together. I'm not used to being the whole arrangement and band all by myself, I definitely need to think about that more and not hear what's in my head so much... create more variety just by myself.

I think I can hear some ideas of what you're looking for with moving the melody around a bit more. I feel sort of limited by my vocal range right now - I don't know that I could actually hit some of those higher notes, but I know that if there's any point where you start feeling bored or too much repetition, then I definitely need to do something to get rid of that..

and thank you re: my voice.. that's absolutely my biggest fear and the thing that I'm trying to work on the most. it's a huge relief to hear you say the tone is good. it feels like everything else can be learned, but damn voice stuff is scary.

I appreciate all of this so much, all these are things I will keep in mind and work on. thank you for your feedback, you've made my day better. :)
